PERMISSIONS_FIX_GUIDE.md, before:

# Missing Permissions Fix Guide

## Problem
Users cannot generate bills due to "Missing or insufficient permissions" error.

## Root Cause
The bill generation feature tries to update property documents in Firestore, but the Firestore Security Rules only allow `admin` or `operator` roles to update properties.

```javascript
// Current Firestore Rule:
match /properties/{propertyId} {
  allow update: if isAdminOrOperator(); // ❌ Blocks non-admin/operator users
}
```

## Current Role System
- **Admin emails**: Only `admin@lonipanchayat.in` gets `admin` role automatically
- **All other users**: Get `viewer` role by default (cannot update properties)
- **Roles**: `admin`, `operator`, `viewer`, `citizen`

## Solutions

### Solution 1: Add Your Email as Admin (Quick Fix) ⭐ RECOMMENDED

1. **Edit** `src/lib/utils.ts`
2. **Add your email** to the `ADMIN_EMAILS` array:

```typescript
export const ADMIN_EMAILS = [
  'admin@lonipanchayat.in',
  'your-email@gmail.com',  // ⬅️ Add your email here
];
```

3. **Sign out and sign in again** to get admin role assigned
4. Your user document will be updated with `role: 'admin'`

### Solution 2: Manually Update User Role in Firebase Console

1. **Go to Firebase Console** → Firestore Database
2. **Navigate to** `users/{your-user-id}` collection
3. **Edit the document** and change:
   ```json
   {
     "role": "viewer"  // Change this to "admin" or "operator"
   }
   ```
4. **Save** the changes
5. **Refresh** your app (no need to re-login)

### Solution 3: Create Role Management UI (Long-term)

Create an admin panel to manage user roles:

```typescript
// Example: Admin can promote users to operator
async function updateUserRole(userId: string, newRole: 'admin' | 'operator' | 'viewer') {
  const { firestore } = initializeFirebase();
  await setDoc(doc(firestore, 'users', userId), { role: newRole }, { merge: true });
}
```

### Solution 4: Relax Firestore Rules (Security Risk)

⚠️ **NOT RECOMMENDED for production**

Change `firestore.rules` to allow all authenticated users:

```javascript
match /properties/{propertyId} {
  allow update: if isSignedIn(); // ⚠️ Less secure
}
```

## Verification Steps

After applying a fix:

1. **Check your user role**:
   - Firebase Console → Firestore → `users/{your-uid}` → Check `role` field
   - Should be `admin` or `operator`

2. **Test bill generation**:
   - Go to Dashboard → Generate Bill
   - Select a property and generate a bill
   - Should work without permission errors

## Common Issues

### Issue: "Still getting permission denied after adding email"
**Solution**: Sign out completely and sign in again. The role is assigned during login.

### Issue: "Cannot find my user document in Firestore"
**Solution**: Sign in at least once. The user document is created automatically on first login.

### Issue: "I want multiple admins"
**Solution**: Add all admin emails to `ADMIN_EMAILS` array in `src/lib/utils.ts`

## Next Steps

1. Apply **Solution 1** (add your email as admin)
2. Sign out and sign in again
3. Try generating a bill
4. If it works, you're done! ✅

## Additional Notes

- **Default admin**: `admin@lonipanchayat.in` / `password123`
- **User roles are checked** via Firestore rules using `getUserRole()` function
- **Roles are hierarchical**: `admin` > `operator` > `viewer` > `citizen`

Commit message:

feat: Add Emergency Admin Role Fixer for instant permission fix
Problem: Users locked out with "Email: N/A" and "Role: VIEWER" cannot generate bills

Solution: Emergency Admin Role Fixer Component

Features:
1. AdminRoleFixer Component (src/components/ui/admin-role-fixer.tsx)
   - One-click admin role assignment
   - Directly updates Firestore user document with 'admin' role
   - Works even when user document doesn't exist (creates it)
   - Shows current user email and UID
   - Real-time success/error feedback
   - No need to sign out and sign in again

2. Integrated into Dashboard
   - Appears right below UserRoleDisplay
   - Visible to all authenticated users
   - Yellow warning styling to indicate emergency use

3. Updated Documentation
   - Added Solution 0 in PERMISSIONS_FIX_GUIDE.md
   - Marked as "EASIEST" solution
   - Step-by-step instructions with emoji indicators

How It Works:
- User clicks "Set My Role to Admin" button
- Component fetches/creates user document in Firestore
- Sets role field to 'admin'
- User refreshes page
- UserRoleDisplay shows green success with admin role
- User can now generate bills ✅

Security Notes:
- Component includes warning about production security
- Should be protected or removed in production builds
- Intended for development/setup phase
- Consider adding authentication check before using

Usage:
1. Navigate to dashboard
2. Look for "Emergency Admin Role Fixer" card
3. Click "Set My Role to Admin"
4. Wait for success message
5. Refresh page (F5)
6. Check UserRoleDisplay shows ADMIN role
7. Try generating a bill

Benefits:
- Instant fix for permission issues
- No code editing required
- No sign out/sign in needed
- Works for any authenticated user
- Self-service solution
- Reduces setup friction

TypeScript: 0 errors ✅

PERMISSIONS_FIX_GUIDE.md, after:

# Missing Permissions Fix Guide

## Problem
Users cannot generate bills due to "Missing or insufficient permissions" error.

## Root Cause
The bill generation feature tries to update property documents in Firestore, but the Firestore Security Rules only allow `admin` or `operator` roles to update properties.

```javascript
// Current Firestore Rule:
match /properties/{propertyId} {
  allow update: if isAdminOrOperator(); // ❌ Blocks non-admin/operator users
}
```

## Current Role System
- **Admin emails**: Only `admin@lonipanchayat.in` gets `admin` role automatically
- **All other users**: Get `viewer` role by default (cannot update properties)
- **Roles**: `admin`, `operator`, `viewer`, `citizen`

## Solutions

### Solution 0: Use Emergency Admin Role Fixer (EASIEST) 🚀 NEW!

**This is the fastest way if you're already logged in but don't have permissions:**

1. **Go to your dashboard** (you should already be there)
2. **Look for the "Emergency Admin Role Fixer"** card below the User Permissions Status
3. **Click "Set My Role to Admin"** button
4. **Wait for success message**
5. **Refresh the page** (F5 or Ctrl+R)
6. **Done!** ✅ You now have admin permissions

**Note**: This tool directly updates your Firestore user document with admin role.

---

### Solution 1: Add Your Email as Admin (Quick Fix) ⭐ RECOMMENDED

1. **Edit** `src/lib/utils.ts`
2. **Add your email** to the `ADMIN_EMAILS` array:

```typescript
export const ADMIN_EMAILS = [
  'admin@lonipanchayat.in',
  'your-email@gmail.com',  // ⬅️ Add your email here
];
```

3. **Sign out and sign in again** to get admin role assigned
4. Your user document will be updated with `role: 'admin'`

### Solution 2: Manually Update User Role in Firebase Console

1. **Go to Firebase Console** → Firestore Database
2. **Navigate to** `users/{your-user-id}` collection
3. **Edit the document** and change:
   ```json
   {
     "role": "viewer"  // Change this to "admin" or "operator"
   }
   ```
4. **Save** the changes
5. **Refresh** your app (no need to re-login)

### Solution 3: Create Role Management UI (Long-term)

Create an admin panel to manage user roles:

```typescript
// Example: Admin can promote users to operator
async function updateUserRole(userId: string, newRole: 'admin' | 'operator' | 'viewer') {
  const { firestore } = initializeFirebase();
  await setDoc(doc(firestore, 'users', userId), { role: newRole }, { merge: true });
}
```

### Solution 4: Relax Firestore Rules (Security Risk)

⚠️ **NOT RECOMMENDED for production**

Change `firestore.rules` to allow all authenticated users:

```javascript
match /properties/{propertyId} {
  allow update: if isSignedIn(); // ⚠️ Less secure
}
```

## Verification Steps

After applying a fix:

1. **Check your user role**:
   - Firebase Console → Firestore → `users/{your-uid}` → Check `role` field
   - Should be `admin` or `operator`

2. **Test bill generation**:
   - Go to Dashboard → Generate Bill
   - Select a property and generate a bill
   - Should work without permission errors

## Common Issues

### Issue: "Still getting permission denied after adding email"
**Solution**: Sign out completely and sign in again. The role is assigned during login.

### Issue: "Cannot find my user document in Firestore"
**Solution**: Sign in at least once. The user document is created automatically on first login.

### Issue: "I want multiple admins"
**Solution**: Add all admin emails to `ADMIN_EMAILS` array in `src/lib/utils.ts`

## Next Steps

1. Apply **Solution 1** (add your email as admin)
2. Sign out and sign in again
3. Try generating a bill
4. If it works, you're done! ✅

## Additional Notes

- **Default admin**: `admin@lonipanchayat.in` / `password123`
- **User roles are checked** via Firestore rules using `getUserRole()` function
- **Roles are hierarchical**: `admin` > `operator` > `viewer` > `citizen`
